The software tool is implemented in the Python programming language. For the assembly portion, we implemented a graph-based algorithm for primer design, based on the design principles for the Gibson assembly method (#cite). We assume that each DNA part of the circular viral segment plasmid that need to be assembled together are ordered in a FASTA file in clockwise order.

Each DNA part represented as a node in a NetworkX (#cite) directed graph, where the directed edges indicate the 5' to 3' directionality of one strand. Primers are designed with 25 n.t. annealing to the DNA part, and 15 n.t. overhang with the upstream and downstream parts for a total length of 40 n.t., and are stored as node attributes. The primer total length can be specified (#TODO), though 40 n.t. is selected as a default as cost-effective primer ordering options exist for this primer length (#cite: Invitrogen website).

For genotype conversion, two Python classes were implemented. One class converts a nucleotide sequence encoding one protein genotype into another nucleotide sequence encoding a different protein genotype. The other class computes the assembly steps necessary to perform protein conversion, and automatically designs the necessary primers.

A command-line interface (CLI) is provided. Users provide a FASTA formatted file that contains the DNA parts that they wish to amplify and stitch together. The DNA parts, listed top to bottom, are assumed to be ordered clockwise, corresponding to a single strand. The CLI provides the ability for researchers proficient in scripting to automate the production of multiple primer sets. A web-based front-end is available on the Influenza Research Database (#TODO: contact Richard).

A web-based interface is also provided. Users may paste in a nucleotide sequence corresponding to the influenza segment that they wish to clone. They may also name the segment, for primer naming purposes. The user then selects the cloning backbone that they wish to clone into, and FluGibson will automatically design the necessary primers, and compute a PCR protocol as well.