To validate our primer design software, we performed the CPEC assembly method on a set of viral polymerase segments that had previously resisted successful restriction enzyme cloning, into a polymerase expression backbone, for viral assays. The four segments required were the PB2, PB1, PA and NP segments. The PCR reactions protocols were standardized across the reactions. Briefly, (#add PCR protocol + DpnI). Though non-specific banding patterns were observed (#figure), size selection of the correct band through gel purification followed by the CPEC protocol (#add protocol) resulted in successful clones, which were verified by restriction enzyme digest and sequencing (#figure, #table - from Islam). Functional assays also showed expression of the viral polymerase (#figure - from Islam).

We also cloned an H3N8 virus from cDNA into reverse genetics plasmids with standardized UTR sequences. Successful cloning was verified by sequencing, and TCID50 assays showed successful replication (#figure - from Chris) at titers similar to frozen viral stocks (#figure - from Chris). Finally, we assembled a panel of HA and NA viral-like particles (VLPs), and successfully validated their presence in viral cells (#figure - from Wendy, get protocol as well), and their antigenicity values.

Beyond the immediate applications of automated primer design as described here, we believe that the issue of protocol and data standards needs to be raised. Viral characterization is an integral part of molecular surveillance efforts. Yet, with restriction cloning methods, different resultant genetic contexts, which may affect protein expression levels (and hence viral performance) (#cite: Lou CB, NBT), may confound assays that depend directly or indirectly on viral protein expression levels. Hence, having standardized plasmid backbones would greatly facilitate our ability to rapidly clone viral segments for characterization and comparison of data. As such, we would like formalize the plasmid backbone sequences used here as standard viral expression backbones - polymerase characterization, viral rescue, and VLP production. Going forth, much discussion will be needed by the influenza research community on data reporting standards for particular assays, especially in academic publications. 